so the name of the talk is from two
weeks of Runway which is a true story to
1.5 billion valuation and some of the
things that we learned so
um this picture these couple pictures
that you see are actually from the first
couple weeks that we are starting Gloom
you know Smiles on our faces having a
really great time thinking that we're
gonna take on the worlds and then you
fast forward about eight months later
and this is 3 A.M was the actual time
stamp on the photo that is a twin
mattress on the floor of my co-founder's
bedroom we were truly a few weeks away
not just in terms of the twenty five
thousand dollars that we had raised in
Angel money but all of our personal
savings as well we had done a couple of
massive pivots at that point neither of
them had quite worked out and this was
kind of our last shot on goal that we
were gonna get so we're putting
everything into it and we're missing our
third co-founder who had essentially
locked himself in his own bedroom for a
week to rebuild a new part of technology
that we hadn't had yet so here we go
getting into the actual lessons that we
learned and I think that this is
arguably one of the most important
things that you can think about when you
are starting a company and a product is
exponential growth in market now I wish
I could say that we understood that
importance as first-time Founders going
into starting Loom but that was
certainly not the case this is more of a
connecting the dots looking backwards
than it is forwards
but when we did actually pivot to the
products that we are working on today
and also the products that we were
building before this we had shown up to
a whiteboard one day the three
co-founders and we all had to bring
three ideas to the table and the one
that we chose was to bring video to the
workplace although had very very
different applications
and the reason for that is that we had
seen and it was good I would say
principled thinking but it wasn't truly
quantitative in nature we had been using
consumer apps like Snapchat and YouTube
and we felt like video was everywhere in
the consumer landscape but when we
showed up at work we were still using
outlook for email and then it was slack
in the last kind of like six to 12
months before we started Loom but video
was truly nowhere to be found and so
Mary Meeker she puts out a annual
internet Trends report and that's the
image that you see on the left and video
was actually the fastest growing sector
of internet traffic which was at 57 in
2012 and that it had gotten up to 64
percent by 2014 So Not only was it a
majority of internet traffic but it was
also the fastest growing so we had
launched in June of 2016 that was the
2014 report fast forward four years
later the two two fastest consumer
platforms on the chart you see our
YouTube and Instagram and in that window
of time about 2017 2018 Instagram added
stories which is a more video oriented
product and they ended up being the
fastest growing and the crazy part is on
that middle image what you don't see is
Tick Tock because it really took over
the world starting in late 2020
throughout 2021 and Tick Tock by the end
of 2022 was the number one most
trafficked site in the world and it's
the first video only consumer platform
so this is just to convey how important
consumer behavior is and we wanted to
bring some of that behavior to the
workplace and you know we thought that
when we were thinking about how
day-to-day communication and
collaboration gets done at work is that
you could see that there was a missing
Gap in the top right hand so really what
I'm trying to convey here is that if
you're starting a company or you're
still in the early stages of building a
company you should really think hard
about is there exponential growth in the
market that I'm going after because it's
much easier to ride a wave than it is to
create one yourself
um the second hard lesson that we had to
learn is that you really need to make a
product that's so good people tell their
friends about it and this is much much
easier said than done to be clear we had
about nine months of pain and trial and
tribulation to show for that but it is
so worth it and if you are trying to
build truly a venture-backed company
this is absolutely critical to being
able to do so so the first product when
I was talking about building video at
work is that we we built a company
called the open tester a product called
open test and the thinking was that it
was going to be this two-sided
Marketplace we're gonna get product
experts like the you all in this room or
a designer from Google a product manager
from Facebook basically anybody from
Fang and then we're gonna pair them up
with companies on the other side whether
it's a design file or it's a code review
or I'd say product requirement Doc and
we're going to create this two-sided
Marketplace for micro transactions to
pay experts for their time and what we
did was we ended up building this video
layer in the middle so that way it made
it really easy to record that feedback
and then deliver it to the people on the
other side what you can see and this
isn't actually the chart on the right
um I I couldn't go back that far in time
to see what our analytics dashboard said
but this was essentially what happened
when we launched on product hunt you
know it went straight vertical for about
12 hours and then right back to zero
after that and even though we are
getting friends and family that were
telling us oh this is actually really
interesting in reality when you put it
out to strangers in the worlds they were
not telling other folks about it so we
went right back to zero but we did by
putting ourselves out there by putting a
product in Market it makes a rich
ecosystem to receive feedback from folks
and there might be Golden Nugget add
some feedback that you want to keep
pulling the string on and so what did we
actually learn I talked about two major
pivots I'm going to kind of like skip to
the last one that we got to which is
what Loom is today but we had built this
video recording layer in the middle
which was essentially allowing people to
record a screen have a superimposed
camera bubble and they wanted that
dissociated from the two-sided
Marketplace they just wanted a really
nice screen recorder and when we went to
vinay and we said hey man by the way
second pivot like can we build this
technology or Shahid and I will sit over
here and wait for you to be done he was
like yeah I can do this this is the
easiest thing that you've asked me to do
is just break out the video recorder
from the the actual platform that we had
built and when we did that we ended up
launching again on product hunt call it
about two months later and that was in
June of 2016 and the gift that you see
on the right is the fact that that same
day a bunch of people were tweeting
about what was called openvid at the
time arguably my worst branding mistake
ever you know people were so confused
between open test and open vid but we
did know that we had something
interesting and special because we were
number one product hunt of the day but
the real story here is that I had gone
to my one of my childhood friends
weddings that weekend I felt so bad
because we were running out of money and
I was one of the best men in the wedding
and so I couldn't say no I knew that I
was going to regret it for the rest of
my life if I didn't so I went to this
wedding and we had launched that night
and I woke up on Saturday
and I turned to my girlfriend now wife
at the time and I looked at our
analytics dashboards and we were having
more videos recorded the next day than
the day that we had launched on product
hunt I was like we did it I don't know
what we did but we did it
um and so that was essentially what I
think the principle is now that a
product so good that people tell their
friends about it is essentially what was
happening on Twitter with co-workers and
so once you have that it really does end
up compounding on top of itself over the
course of time this is still the core
growth engine of loom today which is
that people record videos they send them
to others and they get so much value out
of it that they talk to one another
about how they end up using loom and
that's the core engine of Loom's growth
today so if you can think really really
hard and try and hit that bar that's
incredibly hard to hit they will end up
compounding on itself over the course of
time
all right so it was initially kind of
like a massive Market that it was a
product so good that people tell their
friends about it then you need to
actually when I was talking about the
fact that we did it but I don't know
what exactly we did well then you kind
of have to figure out what it is that
you want to go after what is the kernel
of truth that you have found what is the
earned secret and then how do you build
an ambitious Vision around it a
definitive view of the future and that
it can be huge if it ends up working so
when we were looking at the video
landscape in terms of day-to-day
communication via video messages at work
Loom was not the first entrant not by a
long shot I mean QuickTime had been
around as a default software application
where you could record your screen for
literally two decades before Loom had
launched and when we started looking at
the broader landscape we knew that if we
wanted to unlock the potential video
messages at work it's a relatively
complex undertaking you needed to own
every single step of the record sharing
editing collaboration storage Journey
because we knew that we weren't cool
enough to build a consumer product we
knew that we wanted to build for work
and so by having to build for work you
needed to not only provide a
communication tool but you needed
Enterprise security and Readiness and
when we looked at the broader landscape
there was nobody that was going after
the holistic end-to-end opportunity and
when we started to actually pitch this
version of The Vision to investors we
had gotten essentially like a million
nodes for a very long time but when we
talked about going after this bigger
ambitious Vision it was really valuable
from an investor perspective and so we
actually started getting checks Beyond
twenty five thousand dollars but I also
think that it's really valuable from a
recruiting and employment perspective
because we also had a tough time
recruiting folks as well so you have to
have a clear and ambitious Vision once
you end up knowing the kernel of truth
that you're going to keep building
against
um and so you had seen this chart before
we have now just filled it in with the
loom logo in terms of going after async
video we believed would be as important
as video conferencing over the course of
time we also believe it'll be as big and
important as synchronous texts like
slack or asynchronous text like docs and
sheets and slides and we truly believe
that we think that over the next decade
that async video will be as big as it is
in the consumer landscape at work
and one of the things that I actually
feel like we didn't do a great job of in
the first three or four years we
actually did what I think a lot of
Founders and CEOs end up doing which is
the fact that when you're talking about
the Tam the total addressable market for
your product and offering you end up
going to these websites that have white
papers and you're like what is the
compounding annual growth rate kagger
and then you say what percentage are we
going to own and it kind of feels like
fluff because it is you know because a
lot of times you're going to be building
within a space in a sector that doesn't
really have existing market right like
async video at work wasn't really a
thing before Loom came along and so I
feel like four years on we did a much
better job of conveying what is the
total adjustable market for something
like video messages and we finally
anchored on the fact that we are video
but we are also messaging and the
biggest most ubiquitous
messaging platform is email so what if
we took something that was like the
amount of daily emails that are sent
um and then you kind of shrink that
bubble down to how many are long form
emails that are sent
um because looms tend to be about two to
three minutes in length on average so
it's a long form message it's not a five
second message that you're sending to
others and then what if we only captured
one percent of that long form messaging
opportunity well then you end up with
three billion daily looms and 40 million
daily creators and so when it came to
anchoring the total addressable market
for Loom when we finally made it a
little bit more real you know a little
bit more tangible that you could feel it
I feel like that to me was much more
valuable than looking at these white
papers and looking at the kegger of
something like telecommunications and
saying boom is going to take 0.5 percent
of that and that's a 100 billion dollar
market you know like this feels a little
bit more grounded and real and so could
be huge if it works I think messaging
and storytelling that you do run a
business is what helps you achieve its
fullest potential and that's what you
try and do with total adjustable Market
framing
um the fourth lesson that I think is
more of one that we learned in the first
two products that we had started that
did not work out is that beyond our
product hunt launch we didn't really
know how we were going to grow you know
we were just kind of like throwing them
over the fence and hoping that something
would stick and work
but when it came to loom the product
that we're working on now we had to get
a little bit more principles around how
we thought about our distribution
strategy and how we are going to grow
and I actually got a chance to do a
session with saster in mid 2021 around a
flywheel concept which is like what
Amazon used in order to talk about and
think about their overall growth
opportunity what are the key steps in
the flywheel and how do you end up
unlocking it and accelerating it to the
best of your ability and we ended up
dragging and dropping that sort of
framework to loom in the early days just
to know what were the key steps of
growth so if you want a more detailed
talk on flywheel you can just search
saster flywheel and it'll go in depth
there but the core concept here is that
we ended up mapping out what were the
key steps for Loom because we knew that
we had an inherently viral product again
people would record and they would share
with others and so our job and still
will to this day our job is how do we
enable more people to record and share
with one another because growth will
generally take care of itself so you map
those key steps you say what percentage
of resources are going against there you
have theories and thesis as to what is
actually the meaningful friction points
and blockers and then you remove those
as much as you can over the course of
time and so our distribution strategy is
just leaning into the viral nature of
loom now you you end up adding on
channels over the course of time but
when you are an early stage founder and
CEO you truly only have time for one
right and there should be one that says
directly aligned with your company as
possible and just go after that one as
diligently and framework oriented as
possible so that way you can accelerate
your growth to the best of your ability
but just be honest with yourself I think
that we tried to do way too many things
in the early days around oh we're going
to go after SEO oh we're going to go
after Integrations and really time and
time again we just learned the lesson
that the the more that we can make our
beer taste better as Bezos says the more
that we can lean into this core flywheel
that's the thing that unlocks the most
growth for loom
and then the last lesson that I'd say
is why do startups win is ultimately
team mindset and momentum uh those two
different opposing pictures that I had
shown to start with of like smiles and
happiness and joy and then like hard
work grinding like 11th Hour sort of we
just got to keep going is really at the
core of us three co-founders was that we
were like all in from the very beginning
we're gonna do whatever it takes and
then what's really hard is building out
a team that ends up adopting that same
mentality and mindset and it's really
important that you think about as you're
starting to make your first hires how
you can make sure that that culture
continues to grow with you as you all
grow but I think that the like first
thing that I'd start with in terms of
why startups win
that I think is really uh I don't know
if anybody out there in the crowd right
now is like in it right now and you're
like don't know if it's gonna work and
you're like Mike
throw in the towel is that I think that
this is from Sam Altman where it's like
one no versus one yes and uh this is
where for us like why did we start a
company honestly we talked about the
fact that we were bad employees we
always kind of wanted to do our own
thing while we were at the company and
we felt like
as a company and as an organization you
want to be as aligned as possible and we
always wanted to do our own thing so not
that we were unemployable we were just
bad employees
um and we got told too many we got told
no too many times that our corporate
jobs so what we did was we decided to
build on our own but we got way way more
no's when we were starting like I said
nine months was not just building
products and being told essentially no
by customers but we had done about a
hundred investor pitches and again only
had gotten 25k from two people so that's
a two percent hit rate
um 98 were just straight up no's
including from friends and family by the
way which is like the hardest one since
like you you go and talk to your aunt
and uncle and you sit them down at
Thanksgiving and you're like I promise
it's a real thing and they're like good
luck you know
um but anyways I feel like it was nine
months of really hard work and we just
kept pulling on strings that we felt
like were worth pulling on and we just
got the one yes
um and that was everything that was what
enabled us to continue to to build and I
think that that's where why startups win
is that corporations end up saying no a
lot to really good ideas you actually
have to probably get yeses all the way
up the chain whereas startups only need
one yes one percent of the time over the
course of a year in order to build
something of significance
so that's the first reason why startups
end up winning I think the other thing
is that team mindset and cultural values
end up being unbelievably important and
so we've had iterations on our values
over the course of time of course we
have like as the team grows and evolves
as you bring on more diverse mindsets
you bring on more leadership who have
seen things that work and don't work
like you want to be able to potentially
evolve these over the course of time but
what I would say is that the core of
them have ultimately stayed the same and
so we turned it into a phrase that Loom
like a roommate is an optimistic owner
who acts with velocity keeping it real
and human and four out of five of these
are actually the same as they have been
when we went to Mexico as a seven person
team and we came up with our cultural
values and they stayed True to this day
and so I feel like as a startup employee
generally you have to be an optimist a
little bit what I lovingly says like a
little bit of a screw loose because you
are taking something that's a little bit
harder in nature a little bit more
variable but as long as you're in the
mindset of like together we can
very powerful when it comes to ownership
at startups it's actually literally true
that you tend to be owners at the
company because you own shares in the
company so you are an owner and that
everybody should act like one is like I
was in the New York office last week
there was a bunch of dishes in the sink
I just like rolled up my sleeves and I
put them all in the dishwasher it's like
anything that needs to be done is that
it's my responsibility it's like the
default answer
um velocity is the most important the
day my co-founder and our CTO he's like
this is my ultimate ultimate ultimate
value you know she's all about velocity
and it's a bias for Action is so
important is that you don't actually
want people who go around and build a
bunch of conviction from their peers and
from uh Executives of their team you
just want people who will get done
and the other part of it that I was
talking about where we were a little bit
not so great employees was that we
wanted to get stuff done at our previous
employers as as co-founders of loom but
we're doing it in our own ways versus
aligned and so that last part with
purpose is almost as much for us as
Founders as it is for employees is that
we need to bias for action but we need
to be as aligned as possible
um the real part
is saying the hard thing always I mean I
don't know how many of you in the
audience actually are conflict averse
it's what my executive coach that I've
been working with for four years told me
in our second session is that you know
your greatest superpower also tends to
be your greatest weakness I'm a deeply
empathetic person but that means I don't
actually do the hard thing or say the
hard thing to the person that needs to
hear it so again in terms of a value
that I need to like read on a daily
basis to be the best CEO that I can is
that you're not always going to make
people feel warm and fuzzy actually
that's not your job as a co-worker a
peer as a leader certainly not a CEO and
so say the hard thing always it's it's
like the thing that I have to constantly
be working on and then the last thing is
like you can do real you can do velocity
you can be somebody who is an owner and
like just constantly driving while also
being a human is that you can do all of
that with respect and compassion and we
always wanted to have one value that was
mixed in in terms of directly aligns
with our product offering which video
messaging at work is that it's more
human in nature and so we wanted to make
sure that that product offering was
represented but you can do all of those
things with respect and compassion
um and when you have cultural values
that end up being aligned with what it
is that you're setting out to do with
the worlds is that you win on big
platform shifts right and for us this is
a road map of all the things that we've
done over the course of time that it
ended up being more ambitious that we
had more individuals to take on
additional things and that we needed to
just keep driving against it and it
really is about those cultural values
that end up keeping you accelerating
even as you add more people over the
course of time
so bringing it all together is that
you know I wanted to say actually that
this framework about what is most
important as a startup there is a talk
by Sam Altman like I think that he
obviously being the president of YC for
about six years they think really really
really hard about what it means to have
a successful company and I just took
that framework and I applied all the
loom stories to it that made it a little
bit more real whereas the talk is a
little bit more abstract but if you
wanted I like highly recommend that you
end up going to watch this because it is
something that's truly profound in terms
of the Simplicity yeah the
um the realness in which the lessons are
in terms of building a great company and
a great product so I'm not going to read
them we already went through all these
five lessons
and the one last thing actually before
we go to q a is that there is a special
announcement you know you got to take
advantage of being up on stage sometimes
and obviously of course every company
every B2B SAS is doing some sort of AI
announcement like we are no different
but as of today we had the team hustling
that by this talk that there should be
AI features available to everybody on
loom who's on our starter free or
business tier and it is just the
beginning it's going to be titles that
are based off of transcript that we
apply to every video and that every
video will have an automatic summary
we've been using it internally for a
couple months it's been really really
powerful but again this is just the
beginning we had things like Auto
chapters Auto due dates
um Auto Action items that we're working
on cam and voice avatars that you'll be
able to edit via the transcript so if
you want to delete a sentence and retype
it you don't have to re-record which is
the number one pain point that we hear
from users is that damn I nailed that
five minute video but I messed up that
one sentence yeah so we got that coming
out and available to all of you as of
today it's a free beta
um so this will actually be something
that will be in an AI add-on at some
point in the future we're thinking end
of August early September but Lumia is
available to everybody as of today so
with that I think we'll go to questions
which there's the two mics right there
I'm Michael from came all the way from
Japan and like very interesting
presentation a very insightful and I
have one question about the uh so Loom
could be used for like uh shooting
videos in many work places and have you
ever thought about focusing on one
category for instance like sales or
customer support but you you know
decided to work uh replace it with all
the use cases
yeah it's a great question and one that
we've wrestled with for like since we
started Loom which is that we are from
our pre-seed investors they wanted us to
verticalize specifically with the sales
Persona because they're like you need to
build this set of features and then you
do it over the course of the next couple
years you get to this ARR and you get
acquired by Salesforce yay like
everybody wins but we thought that based
off of the initial survey that we ran we
had seen that it was a truly horizontal
distribution of folks that were using
loom and theoretically product Market
fit although is a free product offering
at the time they weren't paying but it
was like engineers and designers and
product managers it was sales success
support it was Executives at the top of
the company it was like I see engineers
at the bottom and it was across a
variety of Industries and we thought
that very rarely do you get the
opportunity to go horizontal after
something and that we are going to take
a big bet on that now that that was like
I was saying horizontal versus vertical
was just like that earliest some of the
earliest conversations that we're having
but I also had a meeting with Brett
Taylor Who's like co-ceo of Salesforce
and now he's building his own thing
again and he had built quip which was
like a horizontal communication
collaboration platform and he was saying
where a lot of companies like Loom end
up falling down or not reaching their
fullest potential as you don't build the
last mile product experiences because
you end up building horizontal for
everybody and when you're building for
everybody the saying goes is that you're
building for nobody
and so for the first time starting in H2
we're going to do three month Sprints
against certain ideal customer profiles
sales being the first one because
there's a short list of features that
were missing for them that could make
loom disproportionately valuable
relative to building War horizontal
features and so I think that we could
have started going vertical sooner I
think we probably could have started
doing that at year five or six versus
year seven but we're doing it now and I
think that it really is most horizontal
platform dismiss those last mile product
experiences and we're hoping to fix that
over the next couple years
hey uh just wondering
um what was the point at which you sort
of decided to have like a freemium
offering that you decided you need to
shift the focus from you know
acquisition of new customers to actually
monetizing your existing customers and
what advice would you have for companies
that are considering freemium versus
free trials Etc yeah
um well this is another part of the
journey that I think maybe we didn't do
a great job of because we had been
building for about three years and we
are still free at that point
um because video and specifically video
infrastructure is hard and when you have
a team of essentially 12 people before
we raised a series a and almost all of
them were engineers and I mean Zoom is a
great example of like a super saturated
market and they came along with a more
performant video conferencing offering
and that ended up taking over that was
one of our thesis for Loom is that we
needed like the fastest simplest most
performant video infrastructure but that
took all of our resources so we went to
go raise our series a as a B2B SAS
company and it's not like we were below
the revenue standards that you typically
hit we had no Revenue at that point
um and the series a fundraise actually
took a long time it took about four
months five months in order to close it
and it was because we actually got a lot
of no's up front when we got to the
revenue slide of the pitch that we would
go in and doing offices and we were like
we're at zero Revenue but here's all
these surveys that we've ran that tells
us we will make money in a little bit
and they're like no so we actually it
was like 80 was a pre-filter based off
of zero Revenue
so all that's to say is like we
monetized late
um but I think that for us what was
really helpful is I don't know if you're
familiar with reforge
um they're like a growth Academy they
have a really really good program on how
to go zero to one on the monetization
front and so some of the data that we
were bringing to these investor pitches
were like van westendorf price point
analysis and Max diff surveys and it was
broken out by size of company and it was
broken out by icps like Persona types
and here's the features that would be
most valuable to Engineers here's the
features that would be most valuable
sales people here's their willingness to
pay and so as structured of a data as we
could get we're bringing them to
investor pitches
um and I think by going through that in
a more rigorous way we were able to
understand pretty quickly is like it's
time to monetize right like there's a
short list of features that people are
willing to pay for but it was really a
forcing function for us is that we
needed to keep the lights on from like a
video infrastructure perspective and we
needed more money in order to hire more
people in order to build the
monetization oriented offering so that's
why we went out for our series a but we
had gone through that program and that
gave us the aha moment it was time to
like build for modernization versus
focus on premium acquisition performance
and infrastructure
thank you yep
hey man uh I'm Mike from waybook always
been a massive Loom fan and uh it always
has felt so well put together so it's
really interesting to hear some of the
bumps in your position now as CEO what
would you say are the biggest challenges
that uh first of you spend most of your
time and that kind of keeps you up at
night
uh I think that the CEO journey is a
unique one in the sense that every
quarter it feels like something
radically different is at the top of the
list you know like whether you're hiring
for a certain executive in that 90-day
window it could be marketing one quarter
in the next one is VP of engineering and
it's like they're kind of a world apart
and so I feel like I'm constantly
getting a crash course on what is the
next thing that I need to learn at a
surface level just to be enough
dangerous to you know enable experts and
so right now I would say that for me
over the past year the existential sort
of Crisis was the macro environment is
changing it was going from growth growth
growth to growth burn margins we
actually started talking about corporate
efficiency metrics like burn multiple
and Rule of 40 for the first time in
like a couple years and that was a
really kind of abrupt pivot for the
company more broadly but now that we're
a year on and we've gotten that
Foundation set you know the last board
meeting that we had and the like we're
going through H2 planning right now is
okay how do we take a lot of the hard
work that we've done to set the strong
foundation and get back to Innovation a
little bit more and that's both from
like a cultural perspective in terms of
having trusts that we can allocate 15 to
20 of our resources on bigger bets and
that's what you should likely always do
as a startup is like take the big swings
um and then from there the other the
other thing that's keeping me up at
night is that when you're a plg
self-serve business you at some point
need to actually have sales LED
especially after you're going after
Enterprise organizations be
approximately 50 50 of your net new
Revenue that you're generating and we
are far from that ratio and we likely
have to close that over the next couple
years and I'm a product oriented CEO I'm
not a sales oriented CEO and so this is
the thing that keeps me up at night in
terms of
uh how do I get myself to do this
tomorrow because I don't want to
no problem
hi that was
like uh my question so it's perfect you
touched on it how has that evolved over
time in terms of thinking about your plg
Motion versus zero sales lead motion and
you know what are your thoughts on it
today yeah I mean we
interestingly hired our first
salesperson in January of 2020 because
we are building our first loom for teams
oriented offering with an Enterprise SKU
that had your basic Enterprise Readiness
like SSO and skim and we knew that that
was going to come out in six months and
so we hired somebody six months before
that to start having conversations with
customers to make sure that they'd be
willing to purchase once this actually
comes out
um
but then covet hit in March of 2020 you
know there's a lot of kind of call it
Panic purchasing which actually over the
course of the next couple years based
off of zero interest rate like cheap
Capital became unprincipled purchasing
processes not just panicked purchasing
processes and so we had built our sales
team in our organization around this
like freewheeling sort of like go out
close deals everybody was broadly
hitting their numbers but it was a lot
of like bad behaviors and Habits Like
was this a thing that could actually
scale what happens if the market gets
worse which it did you know and then
things got tougher and so
um how do I think about it now I think
that when you're a plg company like Loom
we ended up building out over the course
of a couple years an Enterprise
traditional sales lead motion contact us
like we'll tell you that it's forty five
dollars per user per month but will
negotiate over the course of four or
five calls and then the range is like
six dollars per user per month up to
like people just take the 45 at face
value and then you got a bunch of reps
that are potentially like oh I'm
actually going to delay closing the deal
because I'm going to wait a couple weeks
in order to see if I can get more seats
at a higher price point and that's not
aligned with how to be most value
aligned with your customers certainly
not as a plg company where it's mostly
inside sales so the big change that we
made starting in October of last year is
that we reset to High Velocity sales
model which is like standardized price
card like this number of seats gets you
this price per seat it like removes the
negotiation part we didn't spend more
time on value selling and making sure
that we're not actually trying to sell
more seats than you need today we just
want to know how many seats that you
want and then we're going to trust that
we're going to expand over the course of
time and through that I think it sets up
the foundation for the relationship much
much better than the first couple years
and so we started making this transition
to High Velocity sales it seems to be
working but it's been a hard change
thank you no problem
what's up hey
um yeah I'm a big fan of the product as
well I use it still on the free plan
um I noticed that you said
okay you get AI for free too amazing
yeah I noticed you you kind of frame it
that you guys replace email in some ways
or you are an asynchronous communication
tool there's a lot of Buzz that I'm
hearing that the way email works is
going to change you know Gmail will now
write full emails for me compose them
send them off and then you kind of
hearing the sort of dystopian idea that
you know someone will then consume that
email read that email and then reply
without the human being ever being
involved you know you're a person who
spends your life thinking about
communication and the way Humanity
communicates with you know do you have
any insights into where are we going
with this and and how does Loom fit into
all of that yeah I think that one of the
things that we've thought about a lot
like from the very beginning is that
video is actually a really really
efficient way to encode knowledge so we
biologically evolves to just speak you
know we didn't biologically evolve to
like type or write
um and so
the problem with speaking is that it's
relatively unstructured in nature
whereas writing is ruthlessly efficient
from like getting it down to the kernel
of the idea that you want and then
sharing that out where somebody can
consume it in the most compressed way
possible and so we thought that video is
very efficient from an encoding
perspective but inefficient from a
decoding perspective for the person
receiving and and the reason why I set
all of that up is because there's
something interesting about Ai and
essentially like synthetic communication
that I was at an event a week ago Greg
Brockman was talking about he's the CTO
of openai he's like every company will
have an AI they'll go out and they'll
talk to each other and say like Lou
wants to purchase gong and like they'll
just talk to each other and then it'll
come back being like here's the proposal
right like this this sort of synthetic
communication that you're talking about
the individual level will likely happen
at the company level and the interesting
thing though that a lot of AI
researchers are talking about is like
well if the internet generally just
becomes AI data then we've essentially
stopped in 2023 of creating net new
knowledge for Humanity and then it just
becomes this photocopy of a photocopy of
a photocopy and if like you've seen that
and you like photocopy something
multiple times it becomes much grainier
and just shittier as you could say um
and so there is some concern with that I
think that what's interesting about
video being a really efficient way of
encoding is what percentage of knowledge
and life experience do you feel like you
have that's documented in some way shape
or form and can a more efficient
encoding for human knowledge that's
mainly captured still in our brains you
know it's not documented out in the
worlds can we actually enable people to
to get more of that knowledge out of
their heads and into the world and so I
don't know what happens like five to ten
years from now with AI I don't think
anybody does you know but I think with
loom and video it's like the encoding
part is what we think about a lot and I
think that there's a lot more knowledge
to be captured
how it works at the moment is you know
if I'm getting emails from people I
don't know if a human wrote it or not
whereas if I'm getting something on loom
at least I know that it's a human who
spent a minute you know making that
totally and I think that the thing that
I avoided a little bit is because
there's plenty of companies out there
that you know do the digital and voice
Avatar right and so when it it's not
going to be on Candy Valley pretty soon
you know you're going to get a video
from someone and you're going to be like
Is that real
um and and so I just want to say like
text yes but video next and so I don't
know if that's always going to be true
um and uh so I think that that's where
we'll get into like an interesting world
I've been joking around with some folks
that like crypto may actually have it's
like core use cases like stamped
authenticity of like yes I recorded this
video yes it's me that's like on The
blockchain Ledger and that is when
crypto might actually have its like
really really important consumer
application
um but we'll we'll see amazing thanks
so much
um just to add on to that a bit I
wondered um we still take looms and send
them via email and I wondered if you
ever considered completely displacing
email so that people were just doing
Loom Tulum
yes but
uh I think that to for us for the first
five years one of our like core product
principles is nobody wants another inbox
to check
um like you already have slack you have
iMessages you have email like when does
Loom reach a threshold of being another
inbox and even if we could do it from a
business purpose perspective is it the
right thing for users and customers and
so we actually avoided it for a very
long time the only reason why we ended
up building comments along the video
timeline which essentially creates an
inbox for you to check is that people
are telling us over and over and over
again it's like I just want the most
efficient way to leave a comment at a
specific time stamp of a video if it's a
comment at the end of a video I'll just
go back to slack and email and respond
there but it's like way more efficient
than me having to like type up the
context of like here's where I'm at in
the video
um can you explain a little bit more
here so that's the only reason why we
built comments which is essentially the
first step into being another inbox and
then some of the other things that we
talked about like there's been plenty of
consumer products out there over the
course of time that allow for async
video conversations it's like you record
then somebody records next and the next
person records and none of those have
reached Mass adoption and I think it's
just because
doing an async video conversation is
hard you know like it's just like not
very efficient and when people pick up
workplace communication tools because it
makes them faster and better at their
jobs like that that's the two things
that people pick up workplace
communication tools trying to do an
inbox that is based off of async video
messages back and forth it just never
hit the Tipping Point for us and then
the last thing I'd say is like the
resources that wasn't building the inbox
we actually went really deep on
Integrations so you know when you paste
a loom link there's 2 000 Platforms in
the world that expanded into loom video
in line because we replicated the
YouTube model where it's like you don't
always want to click a YouTube link to
go to YouTube to watch it you just want
to watch it right there in line and so
there was always something that was more
valuable for our customers which is like
we're an invisible window that sits on
top of anything we're a link that you
can share anywhere so we should build
against Integrations way more than we
should build against an inbox
thanks no problem
all right I think we are all set so
thank you everybody for coming out
thank you
[Applause]